Support integrations added in updateConfig() in astro:config:setup (#8672)
withastro/astro: .changeset/cold-schools-yell.md

---
'astro': minor
---

> Add integrations dynamically

Reviewer: I'm torn, because while I think this is a good blog header, I think in our changesets starting with "add", typically we'd be saying what we added, which is the ability to add integrations dynamically. :sweat_smile: 

> Add the ability to add integrations dynamically

Author: Ah yeah, definitely was thinking of the blog format here and you’re right it’s a strange fit for the changeset.

This might work? (Also avoids the “add … add”.)

```suggestion
Support adding integrations dynamically
```

Reviewer: I'll let Mattthew be the final judge here on what's helpful for him! But sure, "support adding", "support for adding"... those work!

> Astro integrations can now dynamically add additional integrations during set-up. This makes it possible for integration authors to bundle integrations more intelligently for their users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro integrations can now themselves dynamically add and configure additional integrations during set-up. This makes it possible for integration authors to bundle integrations more intelligently for their users.
``` 
I just kind of like this for emphasis, since we have some level of recursion going on?

And just checking that if you only got one phrase to describe this feature, it would be "intelligent bundling" that's the key idea here, and not for example something about ensuring dependencies because now it can know what other integrations you have?

Author: Bit biased because I’m thinking about Starlight being able to switch from always adding MDX & Sitemap to only adding them when needed — this is what I had in mind for “intelligent bundling”. I think that makes sense seeing as technically integrations could provide their dependencies (like Starlight does today), but not “intelligently” — e.g. if a user adds sitemap themselves, things crash.

> For example, an integration can decide to add Astro’s official sitemap integration if it sees a user hasn’t already configured it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, an Astro integration's own configuration includes a check for Astro’s official sitemap integration. If not found, the integration will add `@astrojs/sitemap` to the existing project, passing any desired configuration options:
```
Was trying to see whether we could use our newer suggestion format here...

Author: Tried to rework a bit to de-clunkify it?
```suggestion
In the following example, a custom integration checks if `@astrojs/sitemap` is already configured. If not, the integration adds Astro’s sitemap integration, passing any desired configuration options:
```

Reviewer: "checks whether" and yes, I think it's good!

---
'astro': minor
---

> Support integrations added by other integrations with `updateConfig()`

Reviewer 2: Can you write a bit more, like a paragraph (this would go into the blog post).
